Project Name(Android App): Milan (मिलन)

Tagline: Connecting People Together

Problem Statement:

There has been a great evolution in social media apps. From apps like Instagram, Facebook to Discord there have been many apps available for social networking. People can connect, share their thoughts through these social media apps.

-   Though there are too many social media apps still some people, basically introverts, find it difficult to connect with people. They are afraid of their identity being revealed, because of which they are not able to share their thoughts with the world. They need a platform where they can connect with people, boost up their confidence, and socialize, without having any fear of revealing their identity.

-   Then there are people who at times feel lonely and can't find anyone to talk to. They just need someone who can listen to them without having the thought of being judged or ridiculed. Many people have bad experiences which they want to let off themselves by talking about it. This sometimes leads to depression or anxiety or some mental health issues and sometimes even leads them to take extreme steps.

-   There are apps where people of similar interests can connect and explore their area of interest. But mostly these apps are confined to a particular field like for music there is Starmaker, Smule, etc. And hence if you want to find people with different interests one has to go for too many apps. There aren't any flexible options through which users can talk to people with different interests through a single app.

-   Now many of us have addressed this issue that there is sometimes too much toxicity and hatred in these social media apps. People using abusive content, inappropriate slang which affects mental health. Also, parents fear letting their kids use these apps because of this reason. Because of this many people want a solution where they can connect with people, discuss anything, talk about their interests but at the same time be free from such toxicity and abusive language.

Solution:

Now coming to the solutions (enough of the problems right), so here are our Android Application _________ , which deals with all those problems that were mentioned above in the problem statement. The solution is an audio-based, interactive social media application in which a person can create his/her lobby in which anyone can enter without having an invite. The lobby creator or the organizer can pick a theme(or tag) based on his/her interest and can get started, further other people may join in who share a common interest.

 Our App is divided into a few sections, each targeting or trying to help a specific group of people. Let's dive into each of it sequentially -

-   Anonymous- Mental health today is a huge problem, as per a fact- Youth depression rates have risen from 5.9% to 8.2% since 2012- which is not something to be ignored. During this pandemic era, people getting forced to stay at homes and being forbidden to leave their place have created many Introverts and Overthinkers, these groups people are too shy or underconfident to talk to anyone and so want to be Anonymous, this is where our anonymous section would be helpful.

A user can create a lobby and give it a tag of Anonymous, by doing this he/she is creating a lobby in which none of his/her information would be visible, that user would be named with just a code and nothing else. Similarly, any person who wants to join a lobby just to talk to someone or share something about him/her anonymously could do it by joining this anonymous lobby where no one can get any info (not even the name) of that person.

This could be beneficial for those lacking confidence to talk straight to someone or those who live alone or the ones with no friends, as here they will be talking to some anonymous person anonymously, and by doing so they will not only be sharing their thoughts but also developing that confidence required to talk to anyone. People feeling lonely can use this as well to get rid of all of those unnecessary thoughts and sharing them with strangers means no fear of being judged. They will be talking to the people in a similar state so they might help each other as well or maybe a few could find some friends there who didn't have one.

-   Common Field of Interest- Let's take an example to understand this section, suppose a person has a very keen interest in music and is looking for people with similar interests, so how could it be possible? He can do this by creating a group and sending requests to others to become a part of it, but wouldn't it be a tedious task? Yes, it would. So a better option would be to simply create a lobby in our app with a tag of (let's say) Jazz Music, then any other person looking for a lobby of the same interest can join that lobby. In this way, a group of people who have similar tastes in music gathers very easily. In the music lobby, there can be Karaoke sessions involving singles or duet singing or can talk about music or just listen to their favorite songs. Thus, we are bringing together people (or say strangers) having the same interest together. Many writers want the world to listen to their write-ups but they have no audience so they can use our app as a platform to showcase their talent to those people who are interested or could even conduct a session in which various other talented men could share their write-ups. These all are just 'some' of the many ways our app can help people who have a keen interest in some field and want to meet new people sharing that interest.

-   Restricted rooms- As we have seen some people making distance from social media apps as they can't bear the toxicity and abusive content which is there on the platform. Similar is in other audio-centric apps where there is no check on the abusive language being used by people. By using our restricted room feature users don't have to think about any such content. A restricted room can be made by using a restricted tag and there will be a different section for such restricted rooms which the user can find and join. A restricted tag can be used alone or with any other interesting fields as well. Now, how do these restricted rooms work? So basically any user can create these restricted rooms. Other people who will join there will already know that the room is restricted. Now since the room is restricted, if anybody in the room uses some abusive or inappropriate words, he will immediately get disconnected from that room and he can't join that room again. Due to this, anybody who wants to talk clean and share something serious can be free from abuse.
